.TH plogr 1 "July 2025" "plogr 0.7.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
plogr \- a local package installation and removal logger

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plogr
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBplogr\fR is a cross-distro/platform package-activity logger that records every install and removal event on your system. It supports multiple package managers (DNF4, DNF5, APT, Pacman, etc.) and can monitor a downloads folder, writing an append-only history in both JSON and TOML. The tool includes native plugins for DNF4 (Python) and DNF5 (C++) for automatic transaction logging.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup
Setup configuration and directories for a given scope.
.TP
.B status
Show current status and statistics for a given scope.
.TP
.B daemon
Start the monitoring daemon. For the user scope, this includes download monitoring. Use
.BR --background
on POSIX systems to double-fork into the background when not using systemd.
.TP
.B export
Export the package log in the specified format (json or toml).
.TP
.B query
Query the package log with optional filters.
.TP
.B install <name> <manager>
Manually log a package installation.
.TP
.B remove <name> <manager>
Manually log a package removal.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --scope \fI<user|system>\fR
Set the logging scope. The 'system' scope requires administrative privileges. Defaults to 'user'.
.TP
.B --background
(For daemon) Run the daemon in the background (POSIX only). No effect on Windows.
.TP
.B --format \fI<json|toml>\fR
(For export) Set the output format. Defaults to 'json'.
.TP
.B --name \fI<text>\fR
(For query) Filter log by package name (case-insensitive contains).
.TP
.B --manager \fI<text>\fR
(For query) Filter log by package manager (e.g., dnf, apt).
.TP
.B --days \fI<integer>\fR
(For query) Filter log to entries within the last N days.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show a help message for a command and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show the version and exit.

.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.TP
Check the status for the current user:
.RS
.B plogr status --scope user
.RE
.TP
Export the system-wide log as TOML:
.RS
.B sudo plogr export --scope system --format toml
.RE
.TP
Find all packages with 'nvim' in the name installed in the last 30 days:
.RS
.B plogr query --name nvim --days 30
.RE
.TP
Manually log the installation of 'my-app' from a git clone:
.RS
.B plogr install my-app git
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.config/plogr/plogr.conf\fR
User-specific configuration file.
.TP
\fB/etc/plogr/plogr.conf\fR
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
\fB~/.config/dnf/plugins/plogr.conf\fR
DNF4 plugin configuration (user scope).
.TP
\fB/etc/dnf/plugins/plogr.conf\fR
DNF4 plugin configuration (system scope).
.TP
\fB~/.config/dnf5/plugins/plogr.conf\fR
DNF5 plugin configuration (user scope).
.TP
\fB/etc/dnf5/plugins/plogr.conf\fR
DNF5 plugin configuration (system scope).
.TP
\fB~/.local/share/plogr/\fR
Directory for user-specific log files (packages.json, packages.toml).
.TP
\fB/var/log/plogr/\fR
Directory for system-wide log files.
.TP
\fB/usr/lib/python3.*/site-packages/dnf-plugins/plogr.py\fR
DNF4 Python plugin.
.TP
\fB/usr/lib64/dnf5/plugins/plogr.so\fR
DNF5 native C++ plugin.

.SH AUTHOR
Prez <154857421+P-R-E-Z@users.noreply.github.com>

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at: \fIhttps://github.com/P-R-E-Z/plogr/issues\fR
